EC2 provides you three different storage options, Elastic Block
Store, or EBS, Elastic File System, or EFS, and instance store
volumes. Each were introduced at different times,
showing a sort of evolution and process for AWS EC2 storage.
Instance store was the first storage type for use with EC2 instances.
These volumes are physically connected to the server
where your instance is running.
They used to be the default storage option,
but there are a few reasons why they're not best for general use anymore.
EC2 data on an instance store volume is completely wiped if the
connected instance stops or terminates. Data stored on an
instance store volume is basically stuck.
You can't create a snapshot from an instance store volume.
You could move the data off the volume,
but it's completely up to the user and it's a manual process.
EBS is the preferred way to store data with an EC2 instance
these days. EBS volumes live independently from the EC2
instance and can be detached for reuse,
backed up with snapshots, and allows the instance to be stopped.
There are also lots of options in regards to the
types of volumes you can connect.
This table shows you the options you can choose when creating a new
EBS volume. EBS volumes are also replicated across multiple
availability zones to ensure there's no data loss.
EFS is an evolution past EBS, but also serves a very specific need.
EFS is built to connect to multiple instances at once and
scale the file system capacity as needed.
The product documentation advertises capacity growing to
petabyte‑scale, but I haven't been able to test that.
EFS is good for big data type operations and is more of a dedicated file system,
which isn't optimized for a root disk for an EC2 instance. EFS
provides the same data durability as EBS volumes being replicated
across multiple availability zones. In the next clip, we'll play with an EBS volume to see how it can be reused.